---
title: "17b Patch Notes"
date: 2022-10-09T14:05:05-06:00
author: Jan Bergeson (jamp)
---

This patch mainly consists of bugfixes relating to changes made in the last patch, 17a (the one that introduced the beginning of season 2). Here's a big ol' list of 'em.

## Bugfixes

- When an ability shoves a fighter into cover, it didn't deal damage to the cover. Now it does.
- For the purposes of unlocking Catalyst, "electrify" wouldn't count as stun. Now it does.
- Fixed a bug where shooting an acid bubble created a smokescreen tile instead of an acid tile.
- Fixed a bug where if a Punk used its electrifying Overload ability while standing on a line of water (i.e. from Amphibian), it could deal more than 1 damage based on how many water tiles the ability hit directly.
- Fixed a bug where using flamethrower on a tile that contained oil would deal double damage.
- Fixed a bug causing Beast not to explode into acid on death in certain scenarios.
- Fixed a bug where if Medic used Electric Punch on an enemy and killed that enemy, Medic would stun herself.
- Corrected Electric Punch tooltip and several others that said the ability had range 0.
- Fixed teleporter directions for the Yellow teleporter on the Island map to be actually symmetrical.
- Fixed a bug causing Commando to lose the temporary shield it got from its Charge ability immediately at the end of its own turn.
- Fix for Catalyst being able to "wake up" a stunned unit by giving it more movement.
- Fix for double badges showing up in player profiles.
- Fix for unit pathing to avoid land mines when possible.
- Fix for Amphibian's Spray Water ability no longer shooting water further when it targets existing water.
- Fixed a bug causing a brief white flash on-screen when a unit got a shield for the first time.

## Balance Changes

There were also a few balance changes that made it into this patch:

### Critter _The Beast_

The Beast, one of the exciting new units introduced last patch, came out of the gate a bit too strong. With high movement and health and its former primary attack Stomp, it was too much of a better version of the Grump. This change removes Beast's oppressive high-damage, large AOE attack, so Stomp is purely Grump's signature move now. It replaces it with a melee attack that does 3 damage to the enemy, while also dealing 1 damage to itself. This leans more heavily into The Beast's goal of being a self-damaging powerhouse that chooses its own time of explosive death.

`Bash: Beast uses its body to bash an enemy, oblivious to the harm it causes to itself. Deals 1 damage to self.`
- `Damage 3`
- `Range 1`

### Critter Gargoyle

Gargoyle's changes have landed nicely. Gargoyle is now an extremely mobile unit, and can dish out damage as well as healing teammates. However, its heal ability still had a cooldown of 0 -- a remnant of a past where we were trying to compensate for its low overall power level.

`Transfusion` (healing ability)
- `Cooldown: 0 -> 1`

## Matchmaking Changes

One change has been made to matchmaking: the server now keeps track of the last 2 people you matched with through Quick Play, and will not match you with them until you match with other people for a couple games. This should greatly reduce the number of times where you click "Quick Play" a few times and end up with 3 games against the same person.

It's _possible_ that this will negatively impact match times overall, leading to players having to wait longer for games in general - in that case, we can reduce the number of people the server won't match you with, or roll back this change completely. Let me know if you think this is a problem.

## Feedback

As always, let us know in [Discord](https://discord.gg/h5C5wEx) or on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/barnardsgame/) what you think!