---
title: "18c Patch Notes - Balance Changes & Bugfixes"
date: 2023-04-01T12:00:00-06:00
author: Jan Bergeson (jamp)
---

Another small update - but some big balance changes coming in!

## Balance Changes

Lurker and newly updated Acid Junkie have enjoyed a month of considerable influence. In general, the crazy plays Lurker's Burrow and Junkie's Acid Dash enable are so powerful as to be meta-altering -- that is, they're so strong, any team not including them is at a disadvantage. After discussion in Discord, I've opted for some strong nerfs. These should preserve their gameplay identity and allow interesting plays, while removing the most problematic combos

### Lurker

Lurker's `Burrow`s now cannot be used when there is another fighter standing on the other end. Note that this prevents their use on the first turn of their creation.
- This prevents epic plays where you "burrow" your entire team halfway across the map, with no setup. It's still possible to burrow your team halfway across the map, but now enemies will have at least 1 turn's worth of warning, allowing them to position accordingly, or attempt to destroy the burrow.

### Acid Junkie

Acid Junkie's primary attack has been changed from `Acid Punch` (3 damage, in most cases) to `Unarmed` (2 damage).
- This removes the combo where AJ can dash into a group of full-health people and kill _all_ of them, provided his initial dash gets him a kill reset. In that case, he'll still be able to do a lot of damage, but it won't be the crazy game-ending move it is now. 

## Transit map adjustments

The "Transit" map has been adjusted so that the north-south bases are not so close to the center of the map. The map is now symmetrical both horizontally and vertically.

Before:



After:

Lots of bugfixes!