---
title: "20d Patch Notes - Online Bot Games & New Mutations"
date: 2025-02-13T12:00:00-06:00
author: Jan Bergeson (jamp)
---

You can now play online games against bots! Several new mutations have been added as well to spice things up.

## New Mutations

### Clone Wars

All units on each team are the same.

Now you can finally play 8 Rocketeers vs. 8 Overlords, like you've always been dreaming of!

### Units from All Factions

Choose your team from <b>all</b> factions.

Human, Robot, and Critter units can now play alongside each other on the same player's team.

### Bots get extra units/base health

Only applicable to games with bot players. The bot players in the game will have extra units or higher base health.

Use this for an extra challenge after beating the bot AI!

## Bots in Online Games

Bot players are now available in online games! Use the <b>Add Bot</b> button from a game lobby to add one to a game.

Should generally be easier for new players than ranked multiplayer ツ

### Skip Timed Out Player

Taking advantage of the server-bot functionality, a new player-skipping feature has been added.

When a human player <b>times out</b> in a non-ranked game, you can now <b>skip</b> them, and have a bot player take their turn. This is a much less harsh alternative than kicking the player out of the game.

Timed out players can still be kicked from ranked online games.

## Balance Changes

Buffs all around! These changes are intended to make underpowered units more viable.

### Beast

• New immunity: <b>Immune to damage from Acid</b>

### Defragmenter

• Movement: 4 -> <b>5</b>

### Amphibian

• <b>Electrify</b> Cooldown: 1 -> <b>0</b>

• Movement: 4 -> <b>5</b>

### Mad Scientist

• <b>Electrolysis Grenade</b> Range: 3 -> <b>4</b>

### Medic

• <b>Med Kit</b> Range: 2 -> <b>3</b>

### Smoke Screen

Smoke Screen used to block all projectile weapons, and <i>some</i> projectile abilities. For consistency, this has been changed so <b>no</b> abilities will be blocked.

Specifically, the following abilities will <b>no longer</b> be blocked by smoke:

• Bazooka (Rocketeer)

• Glue Gun (Architect)

• Teleport Gun (Architect)

## Map Editor Improvements

• New tool: <b>Select Area</b>. Use this to select an area of the map. You can then <b>Copy/Paste</b>, <b>Mirror</b> or <b>Erase</b> the selected area.

• New: <b>Cover Multi-Select</b>. Tap and drag to select multiple pieces of cover to place together. This helps when drawing multi-tile cover features, such as large tables or stacks of crates.

• New: <b>Drag with two fingers</b> to move the view around, regardless of which tool is selected.

## Bugfixes

- In 6-player 2v2v2 mode, the 6th player will now properly be another shade of green, rather than yellow
- Glue gun tooltip fixed to say "slow by one" instead of "slow by half"
- Mutation "Starting respawn timer" >= 2 fixed to work even when "Max respawn timer" mutation not present
- Machine gun can no longer target a water square right in front of the unit (the bullets wouldn't hit it anyway)
- Fixed an issue where summoning a minion or fly into a fire tile would result in a preview being left there forever
- Fixed some targeting issues caused by destroyed bases

Thanks to everyone who reported bugs! Player feedback is ALWAYS appreciated.

Please continue to tell us your thoughts about the game, either in <b>Discord</b>, <b>Reddit</b>, or using the <b>Report a Bug</b> form in the in-game options tab.